title:Beginnings tribulation and mistakes with Ember.js
subtitle: Getting the handle on EmberJS with a project on 8 hours.
classes: language-markup
startedAt:2013-10-28T04:47:57+00:00
pubDate:2013-10-28T05:39:59+00:00
draft:true



 <header><hgroup>

h1. Beginnings tribulation &amp; mistakes with Ember.js

h2. Getting the handle (bar?) on EmberJS with a project light on the model side and heavy on the views, without Ruby.
</hgroup></header>

p(intro). Once again I find myself starting on yet another MVC framework hoping this one is different. "Yehuda Katz":https://twitter.com/wycats promised it would be so, at his presentation at the Startechconf <time datetime:"2013-10-26">2 days ago</time> ("Slides Here":https://docs.google.com/a/medula.cl/presentation/d/1y5AZN0qbjkMuyxxicfV_XPe_aLePdnkuR69tUOQTVo0/edit#slide=id.p). As usual, I won't be building the typical beginners example, I'll be building with real client work.

h2(#ac1). __[fr]Mise en place__

* *Ember inspector* for the chrome developer tools, from the chrome webstore
* "*Ember starter kit*":http://emberjs.com/ (this one is 1.1.2)
* Optional: Some css framework, they suggest twitter bootstrap, I'll be rolling my own css.
* "*Showdown.js*":http://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/showdown/0.3.1/showdown.min.js for converting markdown to html

h2(#ac3). The simple begining

# We start by copying @index.html@, @css@ and @js@ from the _starter kit_ to your working directory.
# Delete all but the first line in the @js/app.js@ file.
# 
